[Ragnar]
Previously on Vikings...
Wessex remains the last
great kingdom of England.
Come with me,
and conquer King Alfred!
[all chanting]
Hail Ivar! Hail Ivar!
[Alfred]
We know these Northmen
have a reputation
as savage warriors.
But they are only human.
Confronted by evil,
we do not surrender to it.
We shall fight.
We shall never surrender,
whatever the cost!
-[all cheering]
-[Saxon captain]
King Alfred!
This is your doing.
You chose your path.
There is something
you can do for me.
I want you to kill Ingrid.
I know how to do it.
I know how to win.
What are you going to do?
I'm going to cripple them.
It's a new world.
[Torvi]
They've taken our gifts
and replaced them
with new ones.
Nobody is here.
[all gasp]
["If I Had A Heart" playing]
[whispers] Stay with me.
Keep together.
Put down your weapons.
They're not going to attack us.
Peminuit.
Torvi.
Ragnar.
[in Mi'kmaq]
We don't want to fight you.
We would rather make peace.
Come.
Come and meet our sagamaw,
Pekitaulet.
[in English] I think
he wants us to go with him.
-Are you sure?
-Yes.
Then let's go.
[murmuring indistinctly]
[wind howling]
Pekitaulet.
[in Mi'kmaq]
Here are my family.
My eldest son, Peminuit.
His brother, We'jitu.
And his wife, Nikani.
You are strangers.
We will give you assistance.
We will make sure
that you do not starve.
We will be friends with you,
and respect you.
[baby crying]
Oh. [shushing]
Ragnar.
-[baby crying]
-Oh.
[baby continues crying]
[cooing]
Ow!
[all laughing]
[indistinct shouting]
[Saxton captain 1]
Steady the horses. Good.
Scouts, ride up
among those hills.
See if there is any sightings
or evidence of the Viking army.
Yes, my Lord Alfred.
Here! Here!
[Saxton captain 2] You men!
I want you on the ridge now!
It's a precaution.
Even now, I suspect,
Ivar's army will have
reached the Royal Villa.
To find it deserted.
Abandoned. The King fled.
How greatly he will
enjoy setting it afire.
My sweet Elsewith,
you cannot fault me
more than I fault myself.
It would have been
a braver thing
to remain at the villa.
I could have chosen martyrdom.
We could all have died
with easy consciences.
Forgive me,
I have chosen a harder path.
I have chosen
to try and survive,
and I cannot think
that God will blame me.
And whether He blames me
or not, my mind is set.
We will meet
Ivar's army at a time
and place of our choosing.
In this final battle,
which God knows I dread,
I believe
we shall be victorious.
If I did not believe it
with all my heart,
then we would not be here.
Amen.
A thousand times, Amen.
[Nissa] Here.
[Erik sighs]
Why don't you talk anymore?
[Erik]
What is there to talk about?
I am blind.
I cannot see.
I do not know what is
happening around me.
And you never share.
Very well.
If it means anything to you,
amongst other things,
I have dispatched
a trusted fellow
to go to that place
in Denmark
where the King has been
converted to Christianity.
I thought
it was the least I could do.
And what is this
"trusted fellow"
supposed to do?
Assassinate the King,
of course.
We all have a duty
to preserve the old ways.
[Erik scoffs]
You take all the decisions.
Would you have
objected to that?
[scoffs]
If I had objected,
would it have made
any difference?
-Hmm?
-[liquid sloshes]
[thunder rumbling]
[indistinct chattering]
[viking] Place it down here
and cover it up.
-[thunder rumbling]
-[crying]
Orlyg.
Go away.
Why are you crying?
How can things be
worse than this?
We don't exist here.
We have lost everything.
I can be free.
[chuckles] Really? How?
I can be free if I do
something for Lord Erik.
What do you have to do?
I can't say.
You better say it,
because I want to be free, too.
It's the only thing
that matters!
I have to kill Queen Ingrid.
Very well.
Then we'll do it together.
-How do we kill her?
-[chuckles]
How do you want to kill her?
I'm asking you.
We can poison her.
What poisons do you know?
I don't know any poisons.
Oh.
We can stab her.
Do you think?
I think that is the best way.
But Erik must be far away,
and not involved.
I'll get him to sleep with me.
He does it all the time.
He won't be there.
Then it's just you and her.
[loon calling]
[Torvi] I like these people.
I don't believe
they mean us any harm.
I agree.
I also think
we will need their help
if we are to survive here.
Then let's return
their hospitality
and invite them to visit us.
Yes, we should do that.
The sagamaw spoke words
in our language.
How is that possible?
[in Mi'kmaq] Hello.
Hello.
Thank you.
[indistinct chattering]
[viking in English]
It is made of iron. Iron.
[indistinct chattering
in Mi'kmaq]
[indistinct chattering]
[in native tongue] Iron.
-[grunts]
-[all exclaim]
[laughter]
[in English]
Everything is here.
The story of myself.
The story of my race.
Here is where I was burned.
The flames consumed me.
Took away my skin,
then re-made me.
In this image.
In this form.
But my heart is as old
as your hearts, my friends.
My heart is as old as wood.
As old...
as a tall tree...
in the forest.
[indistinct chattering]
[in native tongue]
You can speak our language.
We heard you.
Do you understand?
Happy.
Who spoke to you?
What man? What spirit?
Who happy?
Crazy.
Crazy man?
Where is crazy man?
Where?
[in English]
Gold. Yes? Gold.
[in Mi'kmaq] Gold.
Gold.
[in English] Where?
Where is the gold?
Where?
What is it about the forests?
[Leof] People go
into the forest
to collect mushrooms
or capture a stray animal,
and they never return.
[Galan] There are creatures
in the forest.
Strange creatures who
spring up out of the ground
if they hear your footsteps.
The Devil himself
lives in the forest...
and he walks
up and down in it.
My Lord.
Please, sit.
You'll need your strength.
Be of good cheer.
All of you.
Put your faith in God,
and be not afraid.
[birds chirping]
Still warm.
[grunts]
[groans]
Take it.
[indistinct chattering]
[Saxton captain 1]
Hold the line!
Stay!
Keep formation!
Steady, I say!
[Saxton captain 2]
On me, men!
[Saxton captain 1] Go on,
and hold the line!
[Saxton captain 2]
On me, men!
[shouting indistinctly]
[Saxton captain 1]
You let it fall!
[Saxton captain 2]
Hold it! Hold it!
[grunting]
Halt!
[Saxon captain 1] Halt!
[Saxon captain 2] Halt!
[Saxon captain 1] Stand...
fast!
[horse neighing]
-[Saxon captain 1] Swords!
-[Saxon captain 2] Weapons!
-Guard the Queen.
-Yes, my Lord.
-Protect the Queen.
-[soldier] Yes, my Lord.
Line one, advance!
[Harald]
I don't understand.
What do you mean
you want to "cripple" them?
If we kill 500 Saxons,
then we just
kill 500 Saxons.
[Harald] Hmm.
If we manage to cripple
and injure 500 Saxons,
but not to kill them,
then it will take
1,000 more Saxons
to come and rescue them.
That is three times
the amount of warriors,
and all at our mercy.
Line Two! Advance!
[Saxon captain 1]
Third Line! Advance!
Line Three! Advance!
But how can you be sure
that King Alfred
will try to rescue them?
[Ivar]
Because he's a Christian.
He cares about them.
[Saxon soldiers screaming]
[screaming continues]
[yelling and screaming]
[horn blows]
[laughs]
[horn continues blowing]
[soldiers continue screaming]
[breathing heavily]
Help them! Help them!
Get them out! Help them!
[screaming and yelling
continues]
[squelching]
What shall we do,
my Lord Alfred?
My Lord, do we go
back or forward?
[horn sounding]
[yelling]
Soldiers! With me!
Advance!
[soldiers yelling]
To battle!
[grunting]
[yells]
[horse neighs]
[grunting]
[yelling]
[soldiers screaming]
[screams echoing]
[groaning]
[grunting]
[yelling]
Come out and fight,
you coward!
Ivar!
[Ivar] And then,
when Alfred believes that
it cannot get any worse...
I shall make it worse.
I shall take his Queen.
Impossible.
She will be
heavily protected.
How do we get past
the Queen's guard?
I mean, it's--
That's simple.
We just walk right up
to them and take her.
[grunting]
-[gasping]
-[maid] Help us!
God help us!
The Lord is with us,
my Lady.
[Elsewith screaming]
-[grunts]
-[screams]
-[grunting]
-[screaming]
No!
-[viking] Hold her!
Keep her still!
-[Elsewith screaming]
[laughs]
You are crazy.
You truly are crazy.
[gasping]
Elsewith!
Here! Wait!
[choking, gasping]
[Alfred yelling]
[grunting]
[baby crying]
[groans]
[grunting]
[yells]
[groaning]
[screaming in pain]
[breathing heavily]
[muffled grunting]
[exhales slowly]
[battle noises fading]
[battle noises resume]
I can't see.
I can't see anything.
Now!
[horn sounding]
[Saxon captain] Fall back!
Come on!
Let's get out of here!
[soldier] Which way?
[panting]
[chuckles]
[breathing heavily]
My Lord Alfred,
if I may advise you,
now is the time
to retreat.
We have found men
who know this place
and can guide us safely
out of the plain.
We will not retreat.
My Lord, if we stay here,
I fear things may end badly.
Lord, I beg you!
You heard my command!
We shall not retreat.
Why?
Because Jesus Christ
is with us.
I saw him.
He is on the battlefield,
and we will not
leave his side.
[man] Fall back!
[panting]
[chuckles]
[grunts]
[groans]
[retches]
You are dying.
Valhalla.
Valhalla? [scoffs]
There is no such place.
[grunting]
[coughs, groans]
You will die here alone...
and forgotten.
[groaning]
[Halfdan speaking
in native tongue]
Hello, brother.
I've come to take you
to Valhalla.
The Allfather is waiting.
[in English] Brother.
[groans weakly]
[coughing]
[gasps, gags]
Valhalla.
[gasping]
[Harald coughs]
[singing in native tongue]
[singing along]
[mutters indistinctly]
[shallow breathing]
[men singing in native tongue]
[door creaks]
[Erik chuckling]
[moaning]
[laughs]
Come here.
[groans]
[laughs]
-[grunts]
-Ah!
[laughing]
Oh! Come back.
Come back to your King!
[continues laughing]
Why do you want
to kill me, Orlyg?
Who told you to kill me?
[Erik continues laughing]
[breathing heavily]
I know you're still there.
I won't hurt you.
I won't kill you.
I just want you to tell me
who asked you to kill me.
Was it Erik?
[sighs]
There.
That wasn't so hard,
was it?
[Orlyg grunts]
[Erik] I know you're here.
I can smell you.
[laughs]
[breathing heavily]
I'm here.
I myself am here.
-[grunts]
-[yelling]
[grunts]
[groaning]
[choking]
[panting frantically]
-[choking]
-[man] Traitor!
Kill him.
[viking] Traitor.
He had it coming.
[grunting]
[breathing heavily]
[chuckles]
Ragnar.
This is our story.
Crazy man!
Hello, Floki.
[chuckles]
[music playing]